How to Play Storyweaver — TFT Set 11: Inkborn Fables
Welcome to our TFT trait guide series, where I’ll be covering the Storyweaver trait and how to play it.

The Storyweaver trait is the “summon” trait of Set 11. As you assemble more Storyweavers, you’ll summon a Kayle onto your board to buff up your team.

Summon traits have been around for a while now, so the concept shouldn’t be novel if you’re a returning player. As you assemble more Storyweavers, Kayle will get stronger, buffing up your team.

Let’s get right into the guide.

If you haven’t checked out all of the Set 11 information yet, check out out Set 11 Reveal Page!

How Storyweaver Works
TFT Set 11 Storyweaver

Storyweaver Trait Bonus
Storyweavers summon a Hero named Kayle and evolve her. Storyweavers gain max Health.

(3) Pick a supportive effect. 60 Health
(5) Pick a combat effect. 100 Health
(7) Pick a combat effect. 150 Health
(10) Ascend. 250 Health
Each Storyweaver star level increases Kayle’s Health and Ability Power. Kayle gets 20 % bonus attack speed for each game Stage.

Champions: Garen (1), Sivir (1), Riven (2), Zyra (2), Zoe (3), Galio (4), Irelia (5)

TFT Set 11 Storyweaver Kayle

Once you get (3) Storyweaver, you’ll be able to summon Kayle and pick a supportive effect. As you get more Storyweavers, you’ll pick effects to buff up Kayle further, turning her into a carry for your team.

TFT Set 11 Kayle Talisman of Speed

Storyweaver Items
At tiers (3), (5), and (7), you will be given a a choice between buffs to select. As expected, the strength of these buffs will increase the higher tier Storyweaver you activate.

TFT Set 11 Storyweaver Talismans 14.7

Talisman of Aid: Damaging attacks and abilities 20% Shred and Sunder enemies hit for 3 seconds.
Talisman of Might: Grant Kayle and adjacent allies 20 Ability Power at the start of combat.
Talisman of Speed: Grant Kayle and adjacent allies 12% Attack Speed at the start of combat.
TFT Set 11 Storyweaver Kayle Scroll 14.9

Scroll of Force: Kayle’s ability hits a wider area and deals 50% more damage.
Scroll of Haste: Attacks grant Kayle 6% Attack Speed.
TFT Set 11 Storyweaver Tome 14.7

Tome of Mending: Every 8 seconds revive the strongest ally that hasn’t been revived yet at 50% health.
Tome of Power: Deal 15% more damage. When Kayle casts she fires 2 waves.
Tome of Swiftness: Deal 10% more damage. Attacks now hit in a 1-hex radius around the target.
Storyweaver Synergy
Here’s a list of the traits you can branch into from the Storyweaver units:

Warden (Garen)
Trickshot (Sivir)
Altruist (Riven)
Bruiser (Riven/Galio)
Sage (Zyra)
Arcanist (Zoe)
Fortune (Zoe)
Duelist (Irelia)
Although there are 7 units, there’s only one Class overlap with Bruiser. Because of this, you’ll very likely see Storyweaver comps go for a Bruiser frontline over things like Warden or Behemoth.

Of the Storyweaver units, there are also 3 main potential carries with Sivir, Zoe, and Irelia. Irelia and Sivir lean the trait toward AD, but Zoe and Zyra are magic damage units you can look toward also.

Lastly, hitting Storyweaver (10) will be very hard, but with trait Augments (like Heart, Crest, Crown) back in the game, it should still be doable by level 9.

